# Enhance Image KvasirSEG Segmentation Task
In machine learning, **segmentation** refers to the process of dividing an image into multiple segments or regions, each of which corresponds to a specific object or part of the object. The goal of segmentation is to simplify or change the representation of an image to make it more meaningful and easier to analyze.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the world’s third-most common cancer, causing thousands of deaths every year. In 2022, more than 1.9 million cases were diagnosed. CRC is the second most common cause of cancer death, accounting for over 900,000 deaths per year (9.3% of total cancer deaths). The majority of polyps found in human body are located in nose, colon, uterus, and stomach. Researchers believe that polyps are mostly harmless. However, many studies have found that certain types of polyps can be dangerous and lead to cancer. Colonoscopy is the primary method for screening and preventing polyps from developing into colorectal cancer. However, detecting polyps through colonoscopy requires highly skilled endoscopists and high level of eye-hand coordination. Recent studies have shown that 25% of polyps were missed during colonoscopy. Segmenting polyps is a crucial task in the early diagnosis of colon polyps for preventing colorectal cancer.
# Dataset
Our study uti lizes Kvasir-SEG dataset- a comprehensive dataset, annotated by medical experts, to train and validate our models.
# Experimental methods
In medical endoscopic images, the quality of images plays a crucial role in identifying the pathology of machine learning models. However, despite remarkable advancements in endoscopic technology, images are still often affected by specularities, causing undesired bright spots that obscure important details and degrade image quality. Removing these specular reflections helps improve image sharp ness, contrast, balances brightness, and enables machine learning models to easily identify disease points. To address this issue, we combine various preprocessing methods such as GaussianBlur, expanding glare spots, etc., to optimize the removal of specular, avoid noise in the images, and make the images smoother.

We also use famous and powerful models in image segmentation such as SegNet, UNet, DuckNet, UNet Xception, UNet 3+. Achieve expected performance.

